README.md, before:

# SharePoint Document Library Crawler

This sample project demonstrates how to crawl a SharePoint on‑premises document library using the SharePoint REST API and .NET 8.  Given the server‑relative URL to a library or folder, the crawler traverses the hierarchy, downloads each file and exposes both its binary contents and metadata.  A stubbed method (`SendToExternalApiAsync`) is provided so that you can add your own logic to process or forward the retrieved documents to another API.

The console UI reports progress for the crawl, including a progress bar that reflects the percentage of documents processed.

## Key REST API concepts

* **Enumerating files and folders** – The crawler makes use of the `GetFolderByServerRelativeUrl` endpoint with the `$expand=Folders,Files` query option to retrieve both files and folders in a single call.  This pattern is recommended when you need to build a directory tree because it returns folder and file information together【697898085085864†L82-L86】.

* **Downloading file contents** – Individual file bytes are fetched using the `GetFileByServerRelativeUrl` endpoint and appending `$value` to the URL, which causes SharePoint to return the raw file data【497258984103498†L142-L163】.

* **Authentication** – Since the crawler targets an on‑premises farm, it authenticates using a `NetworkCredential`.  The example uses the `HttpClientHandler` to assign the credentials and sets the `X‑FORMS_BASED_AUTH_ACCEPTED` header to `f`, which instructs SharePoint to bypass the forms‑based authentication page when integrated Windows authentication is available.

## Project structure

```
sharepoint-crawler/
├── DocumentInfo.cs       # Simple data transfer object for document data and metadata
├── Program.cs            # Console entry point; parses args and runs the crawler
├── SharePointClient.cs   # Core class that interacts with SharePoint REST API
├── SharePointCrawler.csproj # .NET 8 project file
└── README.md             # This file
```

### DocumentInfo

`DocumentInfo` encapsulates everything you need about a file: its name, server relative URL, binary data and a dictionary containing all metadata returned by SharePoint.  Any custom columns configured in your library will automatically appear in the `Metadata` dictionary.

### SharePointClient

`SharePointClient` accepts a site URL and optional `NetworkCredential` in its constructor and exposes a single method:

```csharp
IAsyncEnumerable<DocumentInfo> GetDocumentsAsync(string libraryRelativeUrl)
```

Calling this method returns an asynchronous stream of `DocumentInfo` objects representing every file found in the target folder and its subfolders.  Internally the client calls:

* `/_api/web/GetFolderByServerRelativeUrl('<relativeUrl>')?$expand=Folders,Files` to enumerate both child folders and files【697898085085864†L82-L86】.
* `/_api/web/GetFileByServerRelativeUrl('<fileRelativeUrl>')/$value` to download the bytes of each file【497258984103498†L142-L163】.

You can override the protected `SendToExternalApiAsync` method in a derived class or modify its body to post each document elsewhere.

### Program

The console host expects the following command‑line arguments:

```text
dotnet run <siteUrl> <libraryRelativeUrl> <username> <password> [domain]
```

* `siteUrl` – The base URL of your SharePoint site (e.g. `https://server/sites/DevSite`).
* `libraryRelativeUrl` – The server‑relative path of the library or folder to crawl (e.g. `/Shared Documents`).
* `username`/`password` – Credentials for a user with read access to the library.
* `domain` – Optional Active Directory domain for on‑premises environments.

The program constructs a `NetworkCredential` from the supplied account and iterates through all files returned by the crawler, printing basic information (name, URL and size).  Modify the loop to implement your own business logic.

## Building and running

This repository does not include compiled binaries.  To run the crawler:

1. Install .NET 8 SDK on your machine.
2. Navigate to the `sharepoint-crawler` directory.
3. Restore dependencies (there are no external NuGet packages used):

   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

4. Build and run the project, passing the required arguments:

   ```bash
   dotnet run -- https://server/sites/DevSite "/Shared Documents" user password DOMAIN
   ```

Replace `https://server/sites/DevSite` and `/Shared Documents` with your site and library paths.  If you do not specify a domain the credential will assume a local account.

## Extending the crawler

The stubbed `SendToExternalApiAsync` method provides a convenient hook for integrating with other systems.  For example, you could override the method in a subclass and use `HttpClient` to post the document to an external service or write it to cloud storage.  The `DocumentInfo` instance passed into the method exposes both the raw bytes (`Data`) and metadata dictionary (`Metadata`) for your convenience.

Because SharePoint’s REST service includes all custom columns for a file in the metadata, you can use the contents of the `Metadata` dictionary to make routing or transformation decisions before sending the file to another system.

Commit message:

Show estimated crawl completion time

README.md, after:

# SharePoint Document Library Crawler

This sample project demonstrates how to crawl a SharePoint on‑premises document library using the SharePoint REST API and .NET 8.  Given the server‑relative URL to a library or folder, the crawler traverses the hierarchy, downloads each file and exposes both its binary contents and metadata.  A stubbed method (`SendToExternalApiAsync`) is provided so that you can add your own logic to process or forward the retrieved documents to another API.

The console UI reports crawl progress with a progress bar that reflects the percentage of documents processed and an estimated time to completion.

## Key REST API concepts

* **Enumerating files and folders** – The crawler makes use of the `GetFolderByServerRelativeUrl` endpoint with the `$expand=Folders,Files` query option to retrieve both files and folders in a single call.  This pattern is recommended when you need to build a directory tree because it returns folder and file information together【697898085085864†L82-L86】.

* **Downloading file contents** – Individual file bytes are fetched using the `GetFileByServerRelativeUrl` endpoint and appending `$value` to the URL, which causes SharePoint to return the raw file data【497258984103498†L142-L163】.

* **Authentication** – Since the crawler targets an on‑premises farm, it authenticates using a `NetworkCredential`.  The example uses the `HttpClientHandler` to assign the credentials and sets the `X‑FORMS_BASED_AUTH_ACCEPTED` header to `f`, which instructs SharePoint to bypass the forms‑based authentication page when integrated Windows authentication is available.

## Project structure

```
sharepoint-crawler/
├── DocumentInfo.cs       # Simple data transfer object for document data and metadata
├── Program.cs            # Console entry point; parses args and runs the crawler
├── SharePointClient.cs   # Core class that interacts with SharePoint REST API
├── SharePointCrawler.csproj # .NET 8 project file
└── README.md             # This file
```

### DocumentInfo

`DocumentInfo` encapsulates everything you need about a file: its name, server relative URL, binary data and a dictionary containing all metadata returned by SharePoint.  Any custom columns configured in your library will automatically appear in the `Metadata` dictionary.

### SharePointClient

`SharePointClient` accepts a site URL and optional `NetworkCredential` in its constructor and exposes a single method:

```csharp
IAsyncEnumerable<DocumentInfo> GetDocumentsAsync(string libraryRelativeUrl)
```

Calling this method returns an asynchronous stream of `DocumentInfo` objects representing every file found in the target folder and its subfolders.  Internally the client calls:

* `/_api/web/GetFolderByServerRelativeUrl('<relativeUrl>')?$expand=Folders,Files` to enumerate both child folders and files【697898085085864†L82-L86】.
* `/_api/web/GetFileByServerRelativeUrl('<fileRelativeUrl>')/$value` to download the bytes of each file【497258984103498†L142-L163】.

You can override the protected `SendToExternalApiAsync` method in a derived class or modify its body to post each document elsewhere.

### Program

The console host expects the following command‑line arguments:

```text
dotnet run <siteUrl> <libraryRelativeUrl> <username> <password> [domain]
```

* `siteUrl` – The base URL of your SharePoint site (e.g. `https://server/sites/DevSite`).
* `libraryRelativeUrl` – The server‑relative path of the library or folder to crawl (e.g. `/Shared Documents`).
* `username`/`password` – Credentials for a user with read access to the library.
* `domain` – Optional Active Directory domain for on‑premises environments.

The program constructs a `NetworkCredential` from the supplied account and iterates through all files returned by the crawler, printing basic information (name, URL and size).  Modify the loop to implement your own business logic.

## Building and running

This repository does not include compiled binaries.  To run the crawler:

1. Install .NET 8 SDK on your machine.
2. Navigate to the `sharepoint-crawler` directory.
3. Restore dependencies (there are no external NuGet packages used):

   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

4. Build and run the project, passing the required arguments:

   ```bash
   dotnet run -- https://server/sites/DevSite "/Shared Documents" user password DOMAIN
   ```

Replace `https://server/sites/DevSite` and `/Shared Documents` with your site and library paths.  If you do not specify a domain the credential will assume a local account.

## Extending the crawler

The stubbed `SendToExternalApiAsync` method provides a convenient hook for integrating with other systems.  For example, you could override the method in a subclass and use `HttpClient` to post the document to an external service or write it to cloud storage.  The `DocumentInfo` instance passed into the method exposes both the raw bytes (`Data`) and metadata dictionary (`Metadata`) for your convenience.

Because SharePoint’s REST service includes all custom columns for a file in the metadata, you can use the contents of the `Metadata` dictionary to make routing or transformation decisions before sending the file to another system.
